h2. Usage

<pre>directions = GoogleDirections.new(origin, destination)</pre>
where _origin_ and _destination_ are strings of addresses or places that Google can find an address for.  Example: "816 Meridian St., 37207"

Get drive time or distance of whole trip
<pre>
drive_time_in_minutes = directions.drive_time_in_minutes
distance_in_miles = directions.distance_in_miles
</pre>

Get the XML Google returns with every turn, or the API call URL
<pre>
xml = directions.xml  
xml_call = directions.xml_call
</pre>

h3. Error situations

status: NOT_FOUND

If Google can't recognize your places, the distance_in_miles and drive_time_in_minutes will each return 0.  You can call <pre>directions.status</pre> and it should return "NOT_FOUND" (directions.status will also return any other Google API call statuses)

status: OVER_QUERY_LIMIT

If Google thinks you've hit their API too many times in day, or too rapidly, for your given IP address and API key; they might return OVER_QUERY_LIMIT.  In this case distance_in_miles and drive_time_in_minutes will each return 0.  You can call <pre>directions.status</pre> and it should return "OVER_QUERY_LIMIT"

h2. Installation

h3. gem

rails 2.3
# gem install google_directions
# add config.gem "google_directions" to your environment.rb file

rails 3.0
# gem 'google_directions' in your Gemfile
# <pre>bundle install</pre> from command line

h3. Rails plugin

Rails 2.3
<pre>script/plugin install git://github.com/joshcrews/google-directions-ruby.git</pre>

Rails 3.0
<pre>rails plugin install git://github.com/joshcrews/google-directions-ruby.git</pre>

h3. Compatibility

Tested on Rails 2.3.8

Not yet tested on Rails 3.  It probably is Rails 3 compatible, because it's just a single class with a few methods.  It's probably compatible with every ruby project ever.

h3. Google maps API key

You'll need a Google Map API key

http://code.google.com/apis/maps/signup.html

Include it as the constant GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY in an app configuration file (environment.rb, config/initializers/api_keys.rb)

h3. Need turn-by-turn directions?

Not yet included in this gem, but you can do it with nokogiri to parse the XML that comes back when you do
<pre>GoogleDirections.new(origin, destination).xml</pre>
And then nokogiri can cycle through each <step> and you can pick out what you need.

h2. License

Anyone can use this code in any way.

